++++++++++++++++
<h1>Upgrading to AnkiMobile 2.0</h1>
++++++++++++++++

If you are upgrading from a previous version of AnkiMobile, your decks need to
be upgraded before they can be used with the new version. This page will guide
you through upgrading your decks with the desktop program.

= Step 1: Decide which side to keep =

If you last changed your decks on the computer, or if the computer version is
relatively up to date, the easiest way to upgrade is to upgrade the decks that
are on your computer. If you'd like to do this, please skip the next step, and
jump to <<step3,step 3>>.

If you made changes to your decks on your mobile device before you upgraded,
it's possible to copy your decks to your computer first, and then upgrade
those. If you'd like to do this, please see the next step.

= Step 2: Copy decks from your mobile device =

To complete this section, you will need a computer with iTunes installed.

 . Connect your Apple device to your computer via the USB cable.
 . Open iTunes if it doesn't open automatically.
 . Next we'll open the file sharing section, as documented by http://support.apple.com/kb/HT4094[Apple's instructions]:
 .. Select your device from the left bar.
 .. Click on the Apps tab.
 .. Scroll down and find the file sharing section.
 .. Click on Anki in the list on the left.
 .. Your non-upgraded decks should appear on the right. Select them and drag
    them to your desktop.

Next, we will overwrite the older version of your decks with the ones we've
just copied from your mobile device.

 . Open your Documents folder, and then the Anki folder. This is where all
   your decks were stored in previous versions of Anki, unless you manually
   selected a different location.
 . Create a backup folder on your desktop, and move all the old .anki files
   into the backup folder. Please do not move the .media folders.
 . Drag the .anki files you copied from your mobile device to the Anki folder,
   where the old decks used to be.

When you've finished, please install Anki 2 and run it for the first time as
explained in the instructions below.

NOTE: If you installed Anki 2 prior to following this guide, your decks will
have already been upgraded. To start the upgrade process again once you've
copied over your decks, please ensure Anki is closed. Then go to your
Documents folder, then the Anki folder, and move the "User 1" folder to your
desktop. Then delete the prefs.db file, and when you next start Anki as
described below, it will commence the upgrade process again.

[[step3]]
= Step 3: Install the new computer version =

Now we need to install Anki 2 on the computer.

NOTE: If you used Dropbox in the old version of Anki, please see
https://apps.ankiweb.net/docs/changes.html#beforeupgrade[this page] before
continuing.

On your computer, please visit the Anki website:

https://apps.ankiweb.net/

 . After it has loaded, please click the red "click here" text near the top of
   the page.
 . When the new page has loaded, scroll down to the "Download" section.
 . Click on the link that matches your computer type to start the download.
 . When the download finishes, install it like you install other software on
   your computer.

= Step 4: Run the new version for the first time =

Once Anki 2 is installed, please open it. When you run it for the first time,
it will ask you what your native language is. After answering, an upgrade
wizard will appear.

Please step through the screens and begin the upgrade. While your decks are
upgrading, a web page describing changes in the new version should appear.
It's highly recommended you read this page - especially the top section - as
it describes some important changes in the new version.

When your decks have finished upgrading, an upgrade log will be displayed.
Please scroll through it and check to make sure that each deck was upgraded
successfully. If you see any decks that failed to upgrade automatically, we'll
need to manually upgrade them as explained below.

= Step 5: Copy or sync your decks back to AnkiMobile =

Now that your decks have been upgraded, it's time to copy them back to
AnkiMobile. Please see the "Cloud Sync" or "iTunes Import/Export" sections of
the link:am-manual.html#adding[AnkiMobile 2 user manual] for
information on how to do this.

NOTE: If you use iTunes to get your decks onto your device, please make sure
to include media when exporting from the desktop.

= Advanced =

== Manual Upgrading ==

If one or more of your decks failed to upgrade due to an error, please see the
link:manual.html#manualupgrade[Anki 2 user manual] for more information.
  
== Media Handling in iTunes Copy ==

In Anki 2, all decks share a single database and media folder. When you
upgrade your decks with the desktop program, Anki will automatically rename
image and sound files if different files have the same name across multiple
decks. This is why it's important to keep the .media files in your Anki folder
when you're copying decks across from your device, as Anki may need to rename
the media files.

If you had any media files on your device that didn't exist on your desktop
(images you took with the camera, or audio files you recorded), Anki will
automatically copy them into your 2.0 decks, so they will not be lost.

== Cleaning Up ==

To ensure the upgrade process is robust and make it possible to temporarily
downgrade, your old decks and media are not deleted when you upgrade, meaning
that they will continue to take up space.

In the settings screen, if you tap "Upgrading", there is an option to remove
that screen from your settings. If you tap this button it will remove all
data from the old version, including any .anki files in iTunes. For this
reason, it is recommended you only do this after you are confident the upgrade
has gone successfully.
